Secure multi-party computation (SMPC) also known as secure computation is a sub-field of cryptography where the goal is to create a provision for parties to jointly compute a function over their inputs which are kept private i.e. not shared with the other parties. This model is different from traditional cryptography because of the fact that here the information is to be protected from the other participants instead of from an adversary who is outside the system. A basic understanding of SMPC can be obtained from Shamir's Secret Sharing Scheme. The purpose of that scheme is to divide and distribute one secret value among the participants. A subset of the participants must pool their data to retrieve the secet value. Shamir's scheme can also be used on a secret shared value to perform some computation. The result of every participant's computation (on their own data) can be grouped together to get the required outcome without ever revelaing the secret inputs.

SMPC gives a combination of encryption, distribution and distributed combination and this has a big impact on data security and data privacy.


Differential Privacy (DP) is a rigorous mathematical framework which allows sharing information about a dataset publicly by describing the patterns of groups of the dataset without revealing information about the individuals in the dataset. An algorithm is said to be differentially private if and only if the inclusion of any one instance in the training dataset causes only statistically minor changes to the output of the algorithm. This is required in situations where, for example, the identity of a patient (in the medical context) is to be kept private. If not for DP, using just the trained ML model, attackers would have been capable of finding out the hospital a specific patient belonged to which would violate their right to privacy. The role of DP here is to limit the attacker's ability to infer such membership by putting a theoretical limit on the influence that a single individual can have.

